docs/book/component-guide/alerters/alerters.md, before:

---
description: Sending automated alerts to chat services.
icon: message-exclamation
---

# Alerters

**Alerters** allow you to send messages to chat services (like Slack, Discord, Mattermost, etc.) from within your
pipelines. This is useful to immediately get notified when failures happen, for general monitoring/reporting, and also
for building human-in-the-loop ML.

## Alerter Flavors

Currently, the [SlackAlerter](slack.md) and [DiscordAlerter](discord.md) are the available alerter integrations. However, it is straightforward to
extend ZenML and [build an alerter for other chat services](custom.md).

| Alerter                            | Flavor    | Integration | Notes                                                              |
|------------------------------------|-----------|-------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Slack](slack.md)                  | `slack`   | `slack`     | Interacts with a Slack channel                                     |
| [Discord](discord.md)              | `discord` | `discord`   | Interacts with a Discord channel                                   |
| [Custom Implementation](custom.md) | _custom_  |             | Extend the alerter abstraction and provide your own implementation |

{% hint style="info" %}
If you would like to see the available flavors of alerters in your terminal, you can use the following command:

```shell
zenml alerter flavor list
```

{% endhint %}

## How to use Alerters with ZenML

Each alerter integration comes with specific standard steps that you can use out of the box.

However, you first need to register an alerter component in your terminal:

```shell
zenml alerter register <ALERTER_NAME> ...
```

Then you can add it to your stack using

```shell
zenml stack register ... -al <ALERTER_NAME>
```

Afterward, you can import the alerter standard steps provided by the respective integration and directly use them in
your pipelines.

<!-- For scarf -->
<figure><img alt="ZenML Scarf" referrerpolicy="no-referrer-when-downgrade" src="https://static.scarf.sh/a.png?x-pxid=f0b4f458-0a54-4fcd-aa95-d5ee424815bc" /></figure>

Commit message:

Update old docs with warning message (#3249)

docs/book/component-guide/alerters/alerters.md, after:

---
description: Sending automated alerts to chat services.
icon: message-exclamation
---

{% hint style="warning" %}
This is an older version of the ZenML documentation. To read and view the latest version please [visit this up-to-date URL](https://docs.zenml.io).
{% endhint %}


# Alerters

**Alerters** allow you to send messages to chat services (like Slack, Discord, Mattermost, etc.) from within your
pipelines. This is useful to immediately get notified when failures happen, for general monitoring/reporting, and also
for building human-in-the-loop ML.

## Alerter Flavors

Currently, the [SlackAlerter](slack.md) and [DiscordAlerter](discord.md) are the available alerter integrations. However, it is straightforward to
extend ZenML and [build an alerter for other chat services](custom.md).

| Alerter                            | Flavor    | Integration | Notes                                                              |
|------------------------------------|-----------|-------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Slack](slack.md)                  | `slack`   | `slack`     | Interacts with a Slack channel                                     |
| [Discord](discord.md)              | `discord` | `discord`   | Interacts with a Discord channel                                   |
| [Custom Implementation](custom.md) | _custom_  |             | Extend the alerter abstraction and provide your own implementation |

{% hint style="info" %}
If you would like to see the available flavors of alerters in your terminal, you can use the following command:

```shell
zenml alerter flavor list
```

{% endhint %}

## How to use Alerters with ZenML

Each alerter integration comes with specific standard steps that you can use out of the box.

However, you first need to register an alerter component in your terminal:

```shell
zenml alerter register <ALERTER_NAME> ...
```

Then you can add it to your stack using

```shell
zenml stack register ... -al <ALERTER_NAME>
```

Afterward, you can import the alerter standard steps provided by the respective integration and directly use them in
your pipelines.

<!-- For scarf -->
<figure><img alt="ZenML Scarf" referrerpolicy="no-referrer-when-downgrade" src="https://static.scarf.sh/a.png?x-pxid=f0b4f458-0a54-4fcd-aa95-d5ee424815bc" /></figure>
