docs/book/user-guide/cloud-guide/cloud-guide.md, before:

---
description: Taking your ZenML workflow to the next level.
---

# ☁️ Cloud guide

This section of the guide consists of easy to follow guides on how to connect the major public clouds to your ZenML deployment. We achieve this by configuring a [stack](../production-guide/understand-stacks.md).

A `stack` is the configuration of tools and infrastructure that your pipelines can run on. When you run a pipeline, ZenML performs a different series of actions depending on the stack.

<figure><img src="../../.gitbook/assets/vpc_zenml.png" alt=""><figcaption><p>ZenML is the translation layer that allows your code to run on any of your stacks</p></figcaption></figure>

Note, this guide focuses on the *registering* a stack, meaning that the resources required to run pipelines have already been *provisioned*. In order to provision the underlying infrastructure, you can either do so manually, via a IaC tool like Terraform, or use ZenML's sister project [MLStacks](https://mlstacks.zenml.io/).

<!-- For scarf -->
<figure><img alt="ZenML Scarf" referrerpolicy="no-referrer-when-downgrade" src="https://static.scarf.sh/a.png?x-pxid=f0b4f458-0a54-4fcd-aa95-d5ee424815bc" /></figure>

Commit message:

Update old docs with warning message (#2835)

docs/book/user-guide/cloud-guide/cloud-guide.md, after:

---
description: Taking your ZenML workflow to the next level.
---

{% hint style="warning" %}
This is an older version of the ZenML documentation. To read and view the latest version please [visit this up-to-date URL](https://docs.zenml.io).
{% endhint %}


# ☁️ Cloud guide

This section of the guide consists of easy to follow guides on how to connect the major public clouds to your ZenML deployment. We achieve this by configuring a [stack](../production-guide/understand-stacks.md).

A `stack` is the configuration of tools and infrastructure that your pipelines can run on. When you run a pipeline, ZenML performs a different series of actions depending on the stack.

<figure><img src="../../.gitbook/assets/vpc_zenml.png" alt=""><figcaption><p>ZenML is the translation layer that allows your code to run on any of your stacks</p></figcaption></figure>

Note, this guide focuses on the *registering* a stack, meaning that the resources required to run pipelines have already been *provisioned*. In order to provision the underlying infrastructure, you can either do so manually, via a IaC tool like Terraform, or use ZenML's sister project [MLStacks](https://mlstacks.zenml.io/).

<!-- For scarf -->
<figure><img alt="ZenML Scarf" referrerpolicy="no-referrer-when-downgrade" src="https://static.scarf.sh/a.png?x-pxid=f0b4f458-0a54-4fcd-aa95-d5ee424815bc" /></figure>
