docs/book/how-to/track-metrics-metadata/grouping-metadata.md, before:

---
description: Learn how to group key-value pairs in the dashboard.
---

# Grouping Metadata in the Dashboard

![Metadata in the dashboard](../../.gitbook/assets/metadata-in-dashboard.png)

When logging metadata passing a dictionary of dictionaries in the `metadata` parameter will group the metadata into cards in the ZenML dashboard. This feature helps organize metadata into logical sections, making it easier to visualize and understand.

Here's an example of grouping metadata into cards:

```python
from zenml.metadata.metadata_types import StorageSize

log_artifact_metadata(
    metadata={
        "model_metrics": {
            "accuracy": 0.95,
            "precision": 0.92,
            "recall": 0.90
        },
        "data_details": {
            "dataset_size": StorageSize(1500000),
            "feature_columns": ["age", "income", "score"]
        }
    }
)
```

In the ZenML dashboard, "model\_metrics" and "data\_details" would appear as separate cards, each containing their respective key-value pairs.
<!-- For scarf -->
<figure><img alt="ZenML Scarf" referrerpolicy="no-referrer-when-downgrade" src="https://static.scarf.sh/a.png?x-pxid=f0b4f458-0a54-4fcd-aa95-d5ee424815bc" /></figure>

Commit message:

Update old docs with warning message (#2810)

docs/book/how-to/track-metrics-metadata/grouping-metadata.md, after:

---
description: Learn how to group key-value pairs in the dashboard.
---

{% hint style="warning" %}
This is an older version of the ZenML documentation. To read and view the latest version please [visit this up-to-date URL](https://docs.zenml.io).
{% endhint %}


# Grouping Metadata in the Dashboard

![Metadata in the dashboard](../../.gitbook/assets/metadata-in-dashboard.png)

When logging metadata passing a dictionary of dictionaries in the `metadata` parameter will group the metadata into cards in the ZenML dashboard. This feature helps organize metadata into logical sections, making it easier to visualize and understand.

Here's an example of grouping metadata into cards:

```python
from zenml.metadata.metadata_types import StorageSize

log_artifact_metadata(
    metadata={
        "model_metrics": {
            "accuracy": 0.95,
            "precision": 0.92,
            "recall": 0.90
        },
        "data_details": {
            "dataset_size": StorageSize(1500000),
            "feature_columns": ["age", "income", "score"]
        }
    }
)
```

In the ZenML dashboard, "model\_metrics" and "data\_details" would appear as separate cards, each containing their respective key-value pairs.
<!-- For scarf -->
<figure><img alt="ZenML Scarf" referrerpolicy="no-referrer-when-downgrade" src="https://static.scarf.sh/a.png?x-pxid=f0b4f458-0a54-4fcd-aa95-d5ee424815bc" /></figure>
