docs/book/how-to/track-metrics-metadata/logging-metadata.md, before:

---
description: Tracking your metadata.
---

# Special Metadata Types

ZenML supports several special metadata types to capture specific kinds of information. Here are examples of how to use the special types `Uri`, `Path`, `DType`, and `StorageSize`:

```python
from zenml.metadata.metadata_types import StorageSize, DType
from zenml import log_artifact_metadata

log_artifact_metadata(
    metadata={
        "dataset_source": Uri("gs://my-bucket/datasets/source.csv"),
        "preprocessing_script": Path("/scripts/preprocess.py"),
        "column_types": {
            "age": DType("int"),
            "income": DType("float"),
            "score": DType("int")
        },
        "processed_data_size": StorageSize(2500000)
    }
)
```

In this example:

* `Uri` is used to indicate a dataset source URI.
* `Path` is used to specify the filesystem path to a preprocessing script.
* `DType` is used to describe the data types of specific columns.
* `StorageSize` is used to indicate the size of the processed data in bytes.

These special types help standardize the format of metadata and ensure that it is logged in a consistent and interpretable manner.

<figure><img src="https://static.scarf.sh/a.png?x-pxid=f0b4f458-0a54-4fcd-aa95-d5ee424815bc" alt="ZenML Scarf"><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

Commit message:

Update old docs with warning message (#2997)

docs/book/how-to/track-metrics-metadata/logging-metadata.md, after:

---
description: Tracking your metadata.
---

{% hint style="warning" %}
This is an older version of the ZenML documentation. To read and view the latest version please [visit this up-to-date URL](https://docs.zenml.io).
{% endhint %}


# Special Metadata Types

ZenML supports several special metadata types to capture specific kinds of information. Here are examples of how to use the special types `Uri`, `Path`, `DType`, and `StorageSize`:

```python
from zenml.metadata.metadata_types import StorageSize, DType
from zenml import log_artifact_metadata

log_artifact_metadata(
    metadata={
        "dataset_source": Uri("gs://my-bucket/datasets/source.csv"),
        "preprocessing_script": Path("/scripts/preprocess.py"),
        "column_types": {
            "age": DType("int"),
            "income": DType("float"),
            "score": DType("int")
        },
        "processed_data_size": StorageSize(2500000)
    }
)
```

In this example:

* `Uri` is used to indicate a dataset source URI.
* `Path` is used to specify the filesystem path to a preprocessing script.
* `DType` is used to describe the data types of specific columns.
* `StorageSize` is used to indicate the size of the processed data in bytes.

These special types help standardize the format of metadata and ensure that it is logged in a consistent and interpretable manner.

<figure><img src="https://static.scarf.sh/a.png?x-pxid=f0b4f458-0a54-4fcd-aa95-d5ee424815bc" alt="ZenML Scarf"><figcaption></figcaption></figure>
