docs/book/user-guide/llmops-guide/finetuning-embeddings/evaluating-finetuned-embeddings.md, before:

---
description: Evaluate finetuned embeddings and compare to original base embeddings.
---

Now that we've finetuned our embeddings, we can evaluate them and compare to the
base embeddings. We have all the data saved and versioned already, and we will
reuse the same MatryoshkaLoss function for evaluation.

In code, our evaluation steps are easy to comprehend. Here, for example, is the
base model evaluation step:

```python
from zenml import log_model_metadata, step

def evaluate_model(
    dataset: DatasetDict, model: SentenceTransformer
) -> Dict[str, float]:
    """Evaluate the given model on the dataset."""
    evaluator = get_evaluator(
        dataset=dataset,
        model=model,
    )
    return evaluator(model)

@step
def evaluate_base_model(
    dataset: DatasetDict,
) -> Annotated[Dict[str, float], "base_model_evaluation_results"]:
    """Evaluate the base model on the given dataset."""
    model = SentenceTransformer(
        EMBEDDINGS_MODEL_ID_BASELINE,
        device="cuda" if torch.cuda.is_available() else "cpu",
    )

    results = evaluate_model(
        dataset=dataset,
        model=model,
    )

    # Convert numpy.float64 values to regular Python floats
    # (needed for serialization)
    base_model_eval = {
        f"dim_{dim}_cosine_ndcg@10": float(
            results[f"dim_{dim}_cosine_ndcg@10"]
        )
        for dim in EMBEDDINGS_MODEL_MATRYOSHKA_DIMS
    }

    log_model_metadata(
        metadata={"base_model_eval": base_model_eval},
    )

    return results
```

We log the results for our core Matryoshka dimensions as model metadata to ZenML
within our evaluation step. This will allow us to inspect these results from
within [the Model Control Plane](https://docs.zenml.io/how-to/use-the-model-control-plane) (see
below for more details). Our results come in the form of a dictionary of string
keys and float values which will, like all step inputs and outputs, be
versioned, tracked and saved in your artifact store.

## Visualizing results

It's possible to visualize results in a few different ways in ZenML, but one
easy option is just to output your chart as an `PIL.Image` object. (See our
[documentation on more ways to visualize your
results](../../../how-to/visualize-artifacts/README.md).) The rest the
implementation of our `visualize_results` step is just simple `matplotlib` code
to plot out the base model evaluation against the finetuned model evaluation. We
represent the results as percentage values and horizontally stack the two sets
to make comparison a little easier.

![Visualizing finetuned embeddings evaluation
results](../../../.gitbook/assets/finetuning-embeddings-visualization.png)

We can see that our finetuned embeddings have improved the recall of our
retrieval system across all of the dimensions, but the results are still not
amazing. In a production setting, we would likely want to focus on improving the
data being used for the embeddings training. In particular, we could consider
stripping out some of the logs output from the documentation, and perhaps omit
some pages which offer low signal for the retrieval task. This embeddings
finetuning was run purely on the full set of synthetic data generated by
`distilabel` and `gpt-4o`, so we wouldn't necessarily expect to see huge
improvements out of the box, especially when the underlying data chunks are
complex and contain multiple topics.

## Model Control Plane as unified interface

Once all our pipelines are finished running, the best place to inspect our
results as well as the artifacts and models we generated is the Model Control
Plane.

![Model Control Plane](../../../.gitbook/assets/mcp-embeddings.gif)

The interface is split into sections that correspond to:

- the artifacts generated by our steps
- the models generated by our steps
- the metadata logged by our steps
- (potentially) any deployments of models made, though we didn't use this in
  this guide so far
- any pipeline runs associated with this 'Model'

We can easily see which are the latest artifact or technical model versions, as
well as compare the actual values of our evals or inspect the hardware or
hyperparameters used for training.

This one-stop-shop interface is available on ZenML Pro and you can learn more
about it in the [Model Control Plane
documentation](https://docs.zenml.io/how-to/use-the-model-control-plane).

## Next Steps

Now that we've finetuned our embeddings and evaluated them, when they were in a
good shape for use we could bring these into [the original RAG pipeline](../rag/basic-rag-inference-pipeline.md),
regenerate a new series of embeddings for our data and then rerun our RAG
retrieval evaluations to see how they've improved in our hand-crafted and
LLM-powered evaluations.

The next section will cover [LLM finetuning and deployment](../finetuning-llms/finetuning-llms.md) as the
final part of our LLMops guide. (This section is currently still a work in
progress, but if you're eager to try out LLM finetuning with ZenML, you can use
[our LoRA
project](https://github.com/zenml-io/zenml-projects/blob/main/llm-lora-finetuning/README.md)
to get started. We also have [a
blogpost](https://www.zenml.io/blog/how-to-finetune-llama-3-1-with-zenml) guide which
takes you through
[all the steps you need to finetune Llama 3.1](https://www.zenml.io/blog/how-to-finetune-llama-3-1-with-zenml) using GCP's Vertex AI with ZenML,
including one-click stack creation!)

To try out the two pipelines, please follow the instructions in [the project
repository README](https://github.com/zenml-io/zenml-projects/blob/main/llm-complete-guide/README.md),
and you can find the full code in that same directory.

<!-- For scarf -->
<figure><img alt="ZenML Scarf" referrerpolicy="no-referrer-when-downgrade" src="https://static.scarf.sh/a.png?x-pxid=f0b4f458-0a54-4fcd-aa95-d5ee424815bc" /></figure>

Commit message:

Update old docs with warning message (#2997)

docs/book/user-guide/llmops-guide/finetuning-embeddings/evaluating-finetuned-embeddings.md, after:

---
description: Evaluate finetuned embeddings and compare to original base embeddings.
---

{% hint style="warning" %}
This is an older version of the ZenML documentation. To read and view the latest version please [visit this up-to-date URL](https://docs.zenml.io).
{% endhint %}


Now that we've finetuned our embeddings, we can evaluate them and compare to the
base embeddings. We have all the data saved and versioned already, and we will
reuse the same MatryoshkaLoss function for evaluation.

In code, our evaluation steps are easy to comprehend. Here, for example, is the
base model evaluation step:

```python
from zenml import log_model_metadata, step

def evaluate_model(
    dataset: DatasetDict, model: SentenceTransformer
) -> Dict[str, float]:
    """Evaluate the given model on the dataset."""
    evaluator = get_evaluator(
        dataset=dataset,
        model=model,
    )
    return evaluator(model)

@step
def evaluate_base_model(
    dataset: DatasetDict,
) -> Annotated[Dict[str, float], "base_model_evaluation_results"]:
    """Evaluate the base model on the given dataset."""
    model = SentenceTransformer(
        EMBEDDINGS_MODEL_ID_BASELINE,
        device="cuda" if torch.cuda.is_available() else "cpu",
    )

    results = evaluate_model(
        dataset=dataset,
        model=model,
    )

    # Convert numpy.float64 values to regular Python floats
    # (needed for serialization)
    base_model_eval = {
        f"dim_{dim}_cosine_ndcg@10": float(
            results[f"dim_{dim}_cosine_ndcg@10"]
        )
        for dim in EMBEDDINGS_MODEL_MATRYOSHKA_DIMS
    }

    log_model_metadata(
        metadata={"base_model_eval": base_model_eval},
    )

    return results
```

We log the results for our core Matryoshka dimensions as model metadata to ZenML
within our evaluation step. This will allow us to inspect these results from
within [the Model Control Plane](https://docs.zenml.io/how-to/use-the-model-control-plane) (see
below for more details). Our results come in the form of a dictionary of string
keys and float values which will, like all step inputs and outputs, be
versioned, tracked and saved in your artifact store.

## Visualizing results

It's possible to visualize results in a few different ways in ZenML, but one
easy option is just to output your chart as an `PIL.Image` object. (See our
[documentation on more ways to visualize your
results](../../../how-to/visualize-artifacts/README.md).) The rest the
implementation of our `visualize_results` step is just simple `matplotlib` code
to plot out the base model evaluation against the finetuned model evaluation. We
represent the results as percentage values and horizontally stack the two sets
to make comparison a little easier.

![Visualizing finetuned embeddings evaluation
results](../../../.gitbook/assets/finetuning-embeddings-visualization.png)

We can see that our finetuned embeddings have improved the recall of our
retrieval system across all of the dimensions, but the results are still not
amazing. In a production setting, we would likely want to focus on improving the
data being used for the embeddings training. In particular, we could consider
stripping out some of the logs output from the documentation, and perhaps omit
some pages which offer low signal for the retrieval task. This embeddings
finetuning was run purely on the full set of synthetic data generated by
`distilabel` and `gpt-4o`, so we wouldn't necessarily expect to see huge
improvements out of the box, especially when the underlying data chunks are
complex and contain multiple topics.

## Model Control Plane as unified interface

Once all our pipelines are finished running, the best place to inspect our
results as well as the artifacts and models we generated is the Model Control
Plane.

![Model Control Plane](../../../.gitbook/assets/mcp-embeddings.gif)

The interface is split into sections that correspond to:

- the artifacts generated by our steps
- the models generated by our steps
- the metadata logged by our steps
- (potentially) any deployments of models made, though we didn't use this in
  this guide so far
- any pipeline runs associated with this 'Model'

We can easily see which are the latest artifact or technical model versions, as
well as compare the actual values of our evals or inspect the hardware or
hyperparameters used for training.

This one-stop-shop interface is available on ZenML Pro and you can learn more
about it in the [Model Control Plane
documentation](https://docs.zenml.io/how-to/use-the-model-control-plane).

## Next Steps

Now that we've finetuned our embeddings and evaluated them, when they were in a
good shape for use we could bring these into [the original RAG pipeline](../rag/basic-rag-inference-pipeline.md),
regenerate a new series of embeddings for our data and then rerun our RAG
retrieval evaluations to see how they've improved in our hand-crafted and
LLM-powered evaluations.

The next section will cover [LLM finetuning and deployment](../finetuning-llms/finetuning-llms.md) as the
final part of our LLMops guide. (This section is currently still a work in
progress, but if you're eager to try out LLM finetuning with ZenML, you can use
[our LoRA
project](https://github.com/zenml-io/zenml-projects/blob/main/llm-lora-finetuning/README.md)
to get started. We also have [a
blogpost](https://www.zenml.io/blog/how-to-finetune-llama-3-1-with-zenml) guide which
takes you through
[all the steps you need to finetune Llama 3.1](https://www.zenml.io/blog/how-to-finetune-llama-3-1-with-zenml) using GCP's Vertex AI with ZenML,
including one-click stack creation!)

To try out the two pipelines, please follow the instructions in [the project
repository README](https://github.com/zenml-io/zenml-projects/blob/main/llm-complete-guide/README.md),
and you can find the full code in that same directory.

<!-- For scarf -->
<figure><img alt="ZenML Scarf" referrerpolicy="no-referrer-when-downgrade" src="https://static.scarf.sh/a.png?x-pxid=f0b4f458-0a54-4fcd-aa95-d5ee424815bc" /></figure>
