docs/book/how-to/use-configuration-files/README.md, before:

---
description: ZenML makes it easy to configure and run a pipeline with configuration files.
---

# 📃 Use configuration files

ZenML pipelines can be configured at runtime with a simple YAML file that can help you set [parameters](../build-pipelines/use-pipeline-step-parameters.md), control [caching behavior](../build-pipelines/control-caching-behavior.md) or even configure different stack components.

Learn more about the different options in the following sections:

<table data-view="cards"><thead><tr><th></th><th></th><th></th><th data-hidden data-card-target data-type="content-ref"></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>What can be configured</td><td></td><td></td><td><a href="what-can-be-configured.md">what-can-be-configured.md</a></td></tr><tr><td>Configuration hierarchy</td><td></td><td></td><td><a href="configuration-hierarchy.md">configuration-hierarchy.md</a></td></tr><tr><td>Autogenerate a template yaml file</td><td></td><td></td><td><a href="autogenerate-a-template-yaml-file.md">autogenerate-a-template-yaml-file.md</a></td></tr></tbody></table>

<!-- For scarf -->
<figure><img alt="ZenML Scarf" referrerpolicy="no-referrer-when-downgrade" src="https://static.scarf.sh/a.png?x-pxid=f0b4f458-0a54-4fcd-aa95-d5ee424815bc" /></figure>

Commit message:

Update old docs with warning message (#2997)

docs/book/how-to/use-configuration-files/README.md, after:

---
description: ZenML makes it easy to configure and run a pipeline with configuration files.
---

{% hint style="warning" %}
This is an older version of the ZenML documentation. To read and view the latest version please [visit this up-to-date URL](https://docs.zenml.io).
{% endhint %}


# 📃 Use configuration files

ZenML pipelines can be configured at runtime with a simple YAML file that can help you set [parameters](../build-pipelines/use-pipeline-step-parameters.md), control [caching behavior](../build-pipelines/control-caching-behavior.md) or even configure different stack components.

Learn more about the different options in the following sections:

<table data-view="cards"><thead><tr><th></th><th></th><th></th><th data-hidden data-card-target data-type="content-ref"></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>What can be configured</td><td></td><td></td><td><a href="what-can-be-configured.md">what-can-be-configured.md</a></td></tr><tr><td>Configuration hierarchy</td><td></td><td></td><td><a href="configuration-hierarchy.md">configuration-hierarchy.md</a></td></tr><tr><td>Autogenerate a template yaml file</td><td></td><td></td><td><a href="autogenerate-a-template-yaml-file.md">autogenerate-a-template-yaml-file.md</a></td></tr></tbody></table>

<!-- For scarf -->
<figure><img alt="ZenML Scarf" referrerpolicy="no-referrer-when-downgrade" src="https://static.scarf.sh/a.png?x-pxid=f0b4f458-0a54-4fcd-aa95-d5ee424815bc" /></figure>
