docs/book/how-to/control-logging/README.md, before:

---
description: Configuring ZenML's default logging behavior
---

# 🌲 Control logging

ZenML produces various kinds of logs:

* The [ZenML Server](../../getting-started/deploying-zenml/README.md) produces server logs (like any FastAPI server).
* The [Client or Runner](../configure-python-environments/README.md#client-environment-or-the-runner-environment) environment produces logs, for example after running a pipeline. These are steps that are typically before, after, and during the creation of a pipeline run.
* The [Execution environment](../configure-python-environments/README.md#execution-environments) (on the orchestrator level) produces logs when it executes each step of a pipeline. These are logs that are typically written in your steps using the python `logging` module.

This section talks about how users can control logging behavior in these various environments.

<figure><img src="https://static.scarf.sh/a.png?x-pxid=f0b4f458-0a54-4fcd-aa95-d5ee424815bc" alt="ZenML Scarf"><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

Commit message:

Update old docs with warning message (#2892)

docs/book/how-to/control-logging/README.md, after:

---
description: Configuring ZenML's default logging behavior
---

{% hint style="warning" %}
This is an older version of the ZenML documentation. To read and view the latest version please [visit this up-to-date URL](https://docs.zenml.io).
{% endhint %}


# 🌲 Control logging

ZenML produces various kinds of logs:

* The [ZenML Server](../../getting-started/deploying-zenml/README.md) produces server logs (like any FastAPI server).
* The [Client or Runner](../configure-python-environments/README.md#client-environment-or-the-runner-environment) environment produces logs, for example after running a pipeline. These are steps that are typically before, after, and during the creation of a pipeline run.
* The [Execution environment](../configure-python-environments/README.md#execution-environments) (on the orchestrator level) produces logs when it executes each step of a pipeline. These are logs that are typically written in your steps using the python `logging` module.

This section talks about how users can control logging behavior in these various environments.

<figure><img src="https://static.scarf.sh/a.png?x-pxid=f0b4f458-0a54-4fcd-aa95-d5ee424815bc" alt="ZenML Scarf"><figcaption></figcaption></figure>
