docs/book/getting-started/deploying-zenml/manage-the-deployed-services/README.md, before:

---
description: Once deployed, here's how to manage ZenML and its Stack Components
---

# Manage deployed services

Maintaining and troubleshooting your ZenML deployment and the stack components deployed through ZenML is quite easy. Here are a few guides that will explain how:

<table data-view="cards"><thead><tr><th></th><th></th><th data-hidden></th><th data-hidden data-card-target data-type="content-ref"></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><mark style="color:purple;"><strong>Upgrade the version of the ZenML server</strong></mark></td><td>Learn how to upgrade your server to a new version of ZenML for the different deployment options.</td><td></td><td><a href="upgrade-the-version-of-the-zenml-server.md">upgrade-the-version-of-the-zenml-server.md</a></td></tr><tr><td><mark style="color:purple;"><strong>Troubleshoot the deployed server</strong></mark></td><td>Troubleshooting tips for your ZenML deployment</td><td></td><td><a href="troubleshoot-your-deployed-server.md">troubleshoot-your-deployed-server.md</a></td></tr><tr><td><mark style="color:purple;"><strong>Troubleshoot stack components</strong></mark></td><td>Learn how to troubleshoot Stack Components deployed with ZenML.</td><td></td><td><a href="troubleshoot-stack-components.md">troubleshoot-stack-components.md</a></td></tr></tbody></table>

<figure><img src="https://static.scarf.sh/a.png?x-pxid=f0b4f458-0a54-4fcd-aa95-d5ee424815bc" alt="ZenML Scarf"><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

Commit message:

Update old docs with warning message (#2922)

docs/book/getting-started/deploying-zenml/manage-the-deployed-services/README.md, after:

---
description: Once deployed, here's how to manage ZenML and its Stack Components
---

{% hint style="warning" %}
This is an older version of the ZenML documentation. To read and view the latest version please [visit this up-to-date URL](https://docs.zenml.io).
{% endhint %}


# Manage deployed services

Maintaining and troubleshooting your ZenML deployment and the stack components deployed through ZenML is quite easy. Here are a few guides that will explain how:

<table data-view="cards"><thead><tr><th></th><th></th><th data-hidden></th><th data-hidden data-card-target data-type="content-ref"></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><mark style="color:purple;"><strong>Upgrade the version of the ZenML server</strong></mark></td><td>Learn how to upgrade your server to a new version of ZenML for the different deployment options.</td><td></td><td><a href="upgrade-the-version-of-the-zenml-server.md">upgrade-the-version-of-the-zenml-server.md</a></td></tr><tr><td><mark style="color:purple;"><strong>Troubleshoot the deployed server</strong></mark></td><td>Troubleshooting tips for your ZenML deployment</td><td></td><td><a href="troubleshoot-your-deployed-server.md">troubleshoot-your-deployed-server.md</a></td></tr><tr><td><mark style="color:purple;"><strong>Troubleshoot stack components</strong></mark></td><td>Learn how to troubleshoot Stack Components deployed with ZenML.</td><td></td><td><a href="troubleshoot-stack-components.md">troubleshoot-stack-components.md</a></td></tr></tbody></table>

<figure><img src="https://static.scarf.sh/a.png?x-pxid=f0b4f458-0a54-4fcd-aa95-d5ee424815bc" alt="ZenML Scarf"><figcaption></figcaption></figure>
