---
description: How to store artifacts in an AWS S3 bucket
---

{% hint style="warning" %}
This is an older version of the ZenML documentation. To read and view the latest version please [visit this up-to-date URL](https://docs.zenml.io).
{% endhint %}


The S3 Artifact Store is an [Artifact Store](./artifact-stores.md) flavor provided with
the S3 ZenML integration that uses [the AWS S3 managed object storage service](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/)
or one of the self-hosted S3 alternatives, such as [MinIO](https://min.io/) or
[Ceph RGW](https://ceph.io/en/discover/technology/#object),
to store artifacts in an S3 compatible object storage backend.

## When would you want to use it?

Running ZenML pipelines with [the local Artifact Store](./local.md) is usually
sufficient if you just want to evaluate ZenML or get started quickly without
incurring the trouble and the cost of employing cloud storage services in your
stack. However, the local Artifact Store becomes insufficient or unsuitable if
you have more elaborate needs for your project:

* if you want to share your pipeline run results with other team members or
stakeholders inside or outside your organization
* if you have other components in your stack that are running remotely (e.g. a
Kubeflow or Kubernetes Orchestrator running in public cloud).
* if you outgrow what your local machine can offer in terms of storage space and
need to use some form of private or public storage service that is shared with
others
* if you are running pipelines at scale and need an Artifact Store that can
handle the demands of production grade MLOps

In all these cases, you need an Artifact Store that is backed by a form of
public cloud or self-hosted shared object storage service.

You should use the S3 Artifact Store when you decide to keep your ZenML
artifacts in a shared object storage and if you have access to the AWS S3
managed service or one of the S3 compatible alternatives (e.g. Minio, Ceph RGW).
You should consider one of the other [Artifact Store flavors](./artifact-stores.md#artifact-store-flavors)
if you don't have access to an S3 compatible service.

## How do you deploy it?

The S3 Artifact Store flavor is provided by the S3 ZenML integration, you need
to install it on your local machine to be able to register an S3 Artifact Store
and add it to your stack:

```shell
zenml integration install s3 -y
```

The only configuration parameter mandatory for registering an S3 Artifact Store
is the root path URI, which needs to point to an S3 bucket and takes the form
`s3://bucket-name`. Please read the documentation relevant to the S3 service
that you are using on how to create an S3 bucket. For example, the AWS S3
documentation is available [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/create-bucket-overview.html).

With the URI to your S3 bucket known, registering an S3 Artifact Store and using
it in a stack can be done as follows:

```shell
# Register the S3 artifact-store
zenml artifact-store register s3_store -f s3 --path=s3://bucket-name

# Register and set a stack with the new artifact store
zenml stack register custom_stack -a s3_store ... --set
```

Depending on your use-case, however, you may also need to provide additional
configuration parameters pertaining to [authentication](#authentication-methods)
or [pass advanced configuration parameters](#advanced-configuration) to match
your S3 compatible service or deployment scenario.

### Authentication Methods

Integrating and using an S3 compatible Artifact Store in your pipelines is not
possible without employing some form of authentication. ZenML currently provides
two options for managing S3 authentication: one where you don't need to
manage credentials explicitly, the other one that requires you to generate
an AWS access key and store it in a
[ZenML Secret](../../advanced-guide/practical/secrets-management.md). Each
method has advantages and disadvantages, and you should choose the one that
best suits your use-case. If you're looking for a quick way to get started
locally, we recommend using the *Implicit Authentication* method. However, if
you would like to experiment with ZenML stacks that combine the S3 Artifact
Store with other remote stack components, we recommend using the
*AWS Credentials* method, especially if you don't have a lot of experience
with AWS IAM roles and policies.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Implicit Authentication" %}

This method uses the implicit AWS authentication available _in the environment
where the ZenML code is running_. On your local machine, this is the quickest
way to configure an S3 Artifact Store. You don't need to supply credentials
explicitly when you register the S3 Artifact Store, as it leverages the local
credentials and configuration that the AWS CLI stores on your local
machine. However, you will need to install and set up the AWS CLI on your
machine as a prerequisite, as covered in [the AWS CLI documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html), before you register the S3 Artifact Store.

{% hint style="warning" %}
The implicit authentication method needs to be coordinated with other stack
components that are highly dependent on the Artifact Store and need to interact
with it directly to function. If these components are not running on your
machine, they do not have access to the local AWS CLI configuration and will
encounter authentication failures while trying to access the S3 Artifact Store:

* [Orchestrators](../orchestrators/orchestrators.md) need to access the 
Artifact Store to manage pipeline artifacts
* [Step Operators](../step-operators/step-operators.md) need to access the 
Artifact Store to manage step level artifacts
* [Model Deployers](../model-deployers/model-deployers.md) need to access the 
Artifact Store to load served models

These remote stack components can still use the implicit authentication method:
if they are also running on Amazon EC2 or EKS nodes, ZenML will try to load
credentials from the instance metadata service. In order to take advantage of
this feature, you must have specified an IAM role to use when you launched your
EC2 instance or EKS cluster. This mechanism allows AWS workloads like EC2
instances and EKS pods to access other AWS services without requiring explicit
credentials. For more information on how to configure IAM roles:

* on EC2 instances, see the [IAM Roles for Amazon EC2 guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/iam-roles-for-amazon-ec2.html)
* on EKS clusters, see the [Amazon EKS cluster IAM role guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/service_IAM_role.html)

If you have remote stack components that are not running in AWS Cloud, or if you
are unsure how to configure them to use IAM roles, you should use one of the
other authentication methods.
{% endhint %}

{% endtab %}

{% tab title="AWS Credentials" %}

When you register the S3 Artifact Store, you can
[generate an AWS access key](https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/create-access-key/),
store it in a [ZenML Secret](../../advanced-guide/practical/secrets-management.md)
and then reference it in the Artifact Store configuration.

This method has some advantages over the implicit authentication method:

* you don't need to install and configure the AWS CLI on your host
* you don't need to care about enabling your other stack components
(orchestrators, step operators and model deployers) to have access to the
artifact store through IAM roles and policies
* you can combine the S3 artifact store with other stack components that are not
running in AWS

>**Note**:
> When you create the IAM user for your AWS access key, please remember to grant
the created IAM user permissions to read and write to your S3 bucket (i.e. use
the `AmazonS3FullAccess` policy).

After having set up the IAM user and generated the access key, as described in
the [AWS documentation](https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/create-access-key/),
you can register the S3 Artifact Store as follows:

```shell
# Store the AWS access key in a ZenML secret
zenml secret create s3_secret \
    --aws_access_key_id='<YOUR_S3_ACCESS_KEY_ID>' \
    --aws_secret_access_key='<YOUR_S3_SECRET_KEY>'

# Register the S3 artifact-store and reference the ZenML secret
zenml artifact-store register s3_store -f s3 \
    --path='s3://your-bucket' \
    --authentication_secret=s3_secret

# Register and set a stack with the new artifact store
zenml stack register custom_stack -a s3_store ... --set
```

{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

### Advanced Configuration

The S3 Artifact Store accepts a range of advanced configuration options that can
be used to further customize how ZenML connects to the S3 storage service that
you are using. These are accessible via the `client_kwargs`, `config_kwargs` and
`s3_additional_kwargs` configuration attributes and are passed transparently to
[the underlying S3Fs library](https://s3fs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/#s3-compatible-storage):

* `client_kwargs`: arguments that will be transparently passed to
[the botocore client](https://boto3.amazonaws.com/v1/documentation/api/latest/reference/core/session.html#boto3.session.Session.client).
You can use it to configure parameters like `endpoint_url` and `region_name`
when connecting to an S3 compatible endpoint (e.g. Minio).
* `config_kwargs`: advanced parameters passed to [botocore.client.Config](https://botocore.amazonaws.com/v1/documentation/api/latest/reference/config.html).
* `s3_additional_kwargs`: advanced parameters that are used when calling S3 API,
typically used for things like `ServerSideEncryption` and `ACL`.

To include these advanced parameters in your Artifact Store configuration, pass
them using JSON format during registration, e.g.:

```shell
zenml artifact-store register minio_store -f s3 \
    --path='s3://minio_bucket' \
    --authentication_secret=s3_secret
    --client_kwargs='{"endpoint_url:"http://minio.cluster.local:9000", "region_name":"us-east-1"}'
```

For more, up-to-date information on the S3 Artifact Store implementation and its
configuration, you can have a look at [the API docs](https://apidocs.zenml.io/latest/integration_code_docs/integrations-s3/#zenml.integrations.s3.artifact_stores.s3_artifact_store).

## How do you use it?

Aside from the fact that the artifacts are stored in an S3 compatible backend,
using the S3 Artifact Store is no different than [using any other flavor of Artifact Store](./artifact-stores.md#how-to-use-it).
