docs/book/getting-started/zenml-pro/zenml-pro.md, before:

---
description: Your one-stop MLOps control plane.
---

# ZenML SaaS

One of the most straightforward paths to start with a deployed ZenML server is
to use [ZenML Pro](https://zenml.io/pro). The ZenML Pro offering eliminates the need
for you to dedicate time and resources to deploy and manage a ZenML server,
allowing you to focus primarily on your MLOps workflows.

<div data-full-width="false">

<figure>.gitbook/assets/zenml-cloud-tenant-overview.png" alt=""><figcaption><p>ZenML Pro comes equipped with powerful pro-only dashboard features</p></figcaption></figure>

</div>

{% hint style="info" %}
If you're interested in assessing ZenML Pro, you can simply create
a [free account](https://cloud.zenml.io/?utm\_source=docs\&utm\_medium=referral\_link\&utm\_campaign=cloud\_promotion\&utm\_content=signup\_link).
Learn more about ZenML Pro on the [ZenML Website](https://zenml.io/pro).
{% endhint %}

## Key features

ZenML Pro comes as a Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) platform that enhances the
functionalities of the open-source ZenML product. It equips you with a
centralized interface to seamlessly launch and manage ZenML server instances.
While it remains rooted in the robust open-source offering, ZenML Pro offers
extra features designed to optimize your machine learning workflow.

### Managed ZenML Server (Multi-tenancy)

ZenML Pro simplifies your machine learning workflows, enabling you to deploy a
managed instance of ZenML servers with just one click. This eradicates the need
to handle infrastructure complexities, making the set-up and management of your
machine learning pipelines a breeze. We handle all pertinent system updates and
backups, thus ensuring your system stays current and robust, allowing you to
zero in on your essential MLOps tasks. As a ZenML Pro user, you'll also have
priority support, giving you the necessary aid to fully utilize the platform.

### Maximum data security

At ZenML Pro, your data security and privacy are our top priority. The
platform enables a secure connection to your infrastructure, tracking only
metadata via an encrypted connection to maintain the confidentiality of your
sensitive information. ZenML Pro integrates smoothly with your cloud services
via service connectors, allowing a straightforward connection with various cloud
resources without sacrificing data security. We hold your confidential
information in a secure and isolated environment, offering an extra degree of
protection. If desired, you can
even [supply your own secret store](../deploying-zenml/manage-the-deployed-services/custom-secret-stores.md).

Click [here](./system-architectures.md) to understand about the ZenML Pro system
architecture.

<figure><img src="https://static.scarf.sh/a.png?x-pxid=f0b4f458-0a54-4fcd-aa95-d5ee424815bc" alt="ZenML Scarf"><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

Commit message:

Update old docs with warning message (#2997)

docs/book/getting-started/zenml-pro/zenml-pro.md, after:

---
description: Your one-stop MLOps control plane.
---

{% hint style="warning" %}
This is an older version of the ZenML documentation. To read and view the latest version please [visit this up-to-date URL](https://docs.zenml.io).
{% endhint %}


# ZenML SaaS

One of the most straightforward paths to start with a deployed ZenML server is
to use [ZenML Pro](https://zenml.io/pro). The ZenML Pro offering eliminates the need
for you to dedicate time and resources to deploy and manage a ZenML server,
allowing you to focus primarily on your MLOps workflows.

<div data-full-width="false">

<figure>.gitbook/assets/zenml-cloud-tenant-overview.png" alt=""><figcaption><p>ZenML Pro comes equipped with powerful pro-only dashboard features</p></figcaption></figure>

</div>

{% hint style="info" %}
If you're interested in assessing ZenML Pro, you can simply create
a [free account](https://cloud.zenml.io/?utm\_source=docs\&utm\_medium=referral\_link\&utm\_campaign=cloud\_promotion\&utm\_content=signup\_link).
Learn more about ZenML Pro on the [ZenML Website](https://zenml.io/pro).
{% endhint %}

## Key features

ZenML Pro comes as a Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) platform that enhances the
functionalities of the open-source ZenML product. It equips you with a
centralized interface to seamlessly launch and manage ZenML server instances.
While it remains rooted in the robust open-source offering, ZenML Pro offers
extra features designed to optimize your machine learning workflow.

### Managed ZenML Server (Multi-tenancy)

ZenML Pro simplifies your machine learning workflows, enabling you to deploy a
managed instance of ZenML servers with just one click. This eradicates the need
to handle infrastructure complexities, making the set-up and management of your
machine learning pipelines a breeze. We handle all pertinent system updates and
backups, thus ensuring your system stays current and robust, allowing you to
zero in on your essential MLOps tasks. As a ZenML Pro user, you'll also have
priority support, giving you the necessary aid to fully utilize the platform.

### Maximum data security

At ZenML Pro, your data security and privacy are our top priority. The
platform enables a secure connection to your infrastructure, tracking only
metadata via an encrypted connection to maintain the confidentiality of your
sensitive information. ZenML Pro integrates smoothly with your cloud services
via service connectors, allowing a straightforward connection with various cloud
resources without sacrificing data security. We hold your confidential
information in a secure and isolated environment, offering an extra degree of
protection. If desired, you can
even [supply your own secret store](../deploying-zenml/manage-the-deployed-services/custom-secret-stores.md).

Click [here](./system-architectures.md) to understand about the ZenML Pro system
architecture.

<figure><img src="https://static.scarf.sh/a.png?x-pxid=f0b4f458-0a54-4fcd-aa95-d5ee424815bc" alt="ZenML Scarf"><figcaption></figcaption></figure>
