docs/book/how-to/trigger-pipelines/trigger-a-pipeline-from-another.md, before:

---
description: >-
  Trigger a pipeline from another pipeline.
---

# Trigger a pipeline from another pipeline

{% hint style="info" %}
This is a [ZenML Pro](https://zenml.io/pro) only feature. Please [sign up here](https://cloud.zenml.io) get access.
OSS users can only trigger a pipeline by calling the pipeline function inside their runner script.
{% endhint %}

Triggering a pipeline from another **only** works if you've created at least one run template for that pipeline.

```python
import pandas as pd
from zenml import pipeline, step
from zenml.client import Client
from zenml.config.pipeline_run_configuration import PipelineRunConfiguration

@step  
def trainer(data_artifact_id: str):
    df = load_artifact(data_artifact_id)

@pipeline
def training_pipeline():
    trainer()

@step  
def load_data() -> pd.Dataframe:
    ...

@step  
def trigger_pipeline(df: UnmaterializedArtifact):
    # By using UnmaterializedArtifact we can get the ID of the artifact
    run_config = PipelineRunConfiguration(steps={"trainer": {"parameters": {"data_artifact_id": df.id}}})
    Client().trigger_pipeline("training_pipeline", run_configuration=run_config)

@pipeline  
def loads_data_and_triggers_training():
    df = load_data()
    trigger_pipeline(df)  # Will trigger the other pipeline
```

Read more about the [PipelineRunConfiguration](https://sdkdocs.zenml.io/latest/core_code_docs/core-config/#zenml.config.pipeline_run_configuration.PipelineRunConfiguration) and [`trigger_pipeline`](https://sdkdocs.zenml.io/0.60.0/core_code_docs/core-client/#zenml.client.Client) function object in the [SDK Docs](https://sdkdocs.zenml.io/).

Read more about Unmaterialized Artifacts [here](../handle-data-artifacts/unmaterialized-artifacts.md).

<table data-view="cards"><thead><tr><th></th><th></th><th></th><th data-hidden data-card-target data-type="content-ref"></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Learn how to run a pipeline directly from the Python Client</td><td></td><td></td><td><a href="trigger-a-pipeline-from-client.md">orchestrators.md</a></td></tr><tr><td>Learn how to run a pipeline from the REST API</td><td></td><td></td><td><a href="trigger-a-pipeline-from-rest-api.md">orchestrators.md</a></td></tr></tbody></table>

<!-- For scarf -->
<figure><img alt="ZenML Scarf" referrerpolicy="no-referrer-when-downgrade" src="https://static.scarf.sh/a.png?x-pxid=f0b4f458-0a54-4fcd-aa95-d5ee424815bc" /></figure>

Commit message:

Update old docs with warning message (#2922)

docs/book/how-to/trigger-pipelines/trigger-a-pipeline-from-another.md, after:

---
description: >-
  Trigger a pipeline from another pipeline.
---

{% hint style="warning" %}
This is an older version of the ZenML documentation. To read and view the latest version please [visit this up-to-date URL](https://docs.zenml.io).
{% endhint %}


# Trigger a pipeline from another pipeline

{% hint style="info" %}
This is a [ZenML Pro](https://zenml.io/pro) only feature. Please [sign up here](https://cloud.zenml.io) get access.
OSS users can only trigger a pipeline by calling the pipeline function inside their runner script.
{% endhint %}

Triggering a pipeline from another **only** works if you've created at least one run template for that pipeline.

```python
import pandas as pd
from zenml import pipeline, step
from zenml.client import Client
from zenml.config.pipeline_run_configuration import PipelineRunConfiguration

@step  
def trainer(data_artifact_id: str):
    df = load_artifact(data_artifact_id)

@pipeline
def training_pipeline():
    trainer()

@step  
def load_data() -> pd.Dataframe:
    ...

@step  
def trigger_pipeline(df: UnmaterializedArtifact):
    # By using UnmaterializedArtifact we can get the ID of the artifact
    run_config = PipelineRunConfiguration(steps={"trainer": {"parameters": {"data_artifact_id": df.id}}})
    Client().trigger_pipeline("training_pipeline", run_configuration=run_config)

@pipeline  
def loads_data_and_triggers_training():
    df = load_data()
    trigger_pipeline(df)  # Will trigger the other pipeline
```

Read more about the [PipelineRunConfiguration](https://sdkdocs.zenml.io/latest/core_code_docs/core-config/#zenml.config.pipeline_run_configuration.PipelineRunConfiguration) and [`trigger_pipeline`](https://sdkdocs.zenml.io/0.60.0/core_code_docs/core-client/#zenml.client.Client) function object in the [SDK Docs](https://sdkdocs.zenml.io/).

Read more about Unmaterialized Artifacts [here](../handle-data-artifacts/unmaterialized-artifacts.md).

<table data-view="cards"><thead><tr><th></th><th></th><th></th><th data-hidden data-card-target data-type="content-ref"></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Learn how to run a pipeline directly from the Python Client</td><td></td><td></td><td><a href="trigger-a-pipeline-from-client.md">orchestrators.md</a></td></tr><tr><td>Learn how to run a pipeline from the REST API</td><td></td><td></td><td><a href="trigger-a-pipeline-from-rest-api.md">orchestrators.md</a></td></tr></tbody></table>

<!-- For scarf -->
<figure><img alt="ZenML Scarf" referrerpolicy="no-referrer-when-downgrade" src="https://static.scarf.sh/a.png?x-pxid=f0b4f458-0a54-4fcd-aa95-d5ee424815bc" /></figure>
