docs/book/component-guide/annotators/argilla.md, before:

---
description: Annotating data using Argilla.
---

# Argilla

[Argilla](https://github.com/argilla-io/argilla) is a collaboration tool for AI engineers and domain experts who need to build high-quality datasets for their projects. It enables users to build robust language models through faster data curation using both human and machine feedback, providing support for each step in the MLOps cycle, from data labeling to model monitoring.

![Argilla Annotator](../../.gitbook/assets/argilla_annotator.png)

Argilla distinguishes itself for its focus on specific use cases and
human-in-the-loop approaches. While it does offer programmatic features,
Argilla's core value lies in actively involving human experts in the
tool-building process, setting it apart from other competitors.

### When would you want to use it?

If you need to label textual data as part of your ML workflow, that is the point
at which you could consider adding the Argilla annotator stack component as part
of your ZenML stack.

We currently support the use of annotation at the various stages described in
[the main annotators docs page](annotators.md). The Argilla integration
currently is built to support annotation using a local (Docker-backed) instance
of Argilla as well as a deployed instance of Argilla. There is an easy way to
deploy Argilla as a [Hugging Face
Space](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/spaces-sdks-docker-argilla), for
instance, which is documented in the [Argilla
documentation](https://docs.argilla.io/latest/getting_started/quickstart/).

### How to deploy it?

The Argilla Annotator flavor is provided by the Argilla ZenML integration. You
need to install it to be able to register it as an Annotator and add it to your
stack:

```shell
zenml integration install argilla
```

You can either pass the `api_key` directly into the `zenml annotator register`
command or you can register it as a secret and pass the secret name into the
command. We recommend the latter approach for security reasons. If you want to
take the latter approach, be sure to register a secret for whichever artifact
store you choose, and then you should make sure to pass the name of that secret
into the annotator as the `--authentication_secret`. For example, you'd run:

```shell
zenml secret create argilla_secrets --api_key="<your_argilla_api_key>"
```

(Visit the Argilla documentation and interface to obtain your API key.)

Then register your annotator with ZenML:

```shell
zenml annotator register argilla --flavor argilla --authentication_secret=argilla_secrets --port=6900
```

When using a deployed instance of Argilla, the instance URL must be specified
without any trailing `/` at the end. If you are using a Hugging Face Spaces
instance and its visibility is set to private, you must also set the
`headers` parameter which would include a Hugging Face token. For example:

```shell
zenml annotator register argilla --flavor argilla --authentication_secret=argilla_secrets --instance_url="https://[your-owner-name]-[your_space_name].hf.space" --headers='{"Authorization": "Bearer {[your_hugging_face_token]}"}'
```

Finally, add all these components to a stack and set it as your active stack.
For example:

```shell
zenml stack copy default annotation
# this must be done separately so that the other required stack components are first registered
zenml stack update annotation -an <YOUR_ARGILLA_ANNOTATOR>
zenml stack set annotation
# optionally also
zenml stack describe
```

Now if you run a simple CLI command like `zenml annotator dataset list` this
should work without any errors. You're ready to use your annotator in your ML
workflow!

### How do you use it?

ZenML supports access to your data and annotations via the `zenml annotator ...`
CLI command. We have also implemented an interface to some of the common Argilla
functionality via the ZenML SDK.

You can access information about the datasets you're using with the `zenml
annotator dataset list`. To work on annotation for a particular dataset, you can
run `zenml annotator dataset annotate <dataset_name>`. This will open the Argilla
web interface for you to start annotating the dataset.

#### Argilla Annotator Stack Component

Our Argilla annotator component inherits from the `BaseAnnotator` class. There
are some methods that are core methods that must be defined, like being able to
register or get a dataset. Most annotators handle things like the storage of
state and have their own custom features, so there are quite a few extra methods
specific to Argilla.

The core Argilla functionality that's currently enabled includes a way to
register your datasets, export any annotations for use in separate steps as well
as start the annotator daemon process. (Argilla requires a server to be running
in order to use the web interface, and ZenML handles the connection to this
server using the details you passed in when registering the component.)

#### Argilla Annotator SDK

Visit [the SDK
docs](https://sdkdocs.zenml.io/latest/integration_code_docs/integrations-argilla/)
to learn more about the methods that ZenML exposes for the Argilla annotator. To
access the SDK through Python, you would first get the client object and then
call the methods you need. For example:

```python
from zenml.client import Client

client = Client()
annotator = client.active_stack.annotator

# list dataset names
dataset_names = annotator.get_dataset_names()

# get a specific dataset
dataset = annotator.get_dataset("dataset_name")

# get the annotations for a dataset
annotations = annotator.get_labeled_data(dataset_name="dataset_name")
```

For more detailed information on how to use the Argilla annotator and the
functionality it provides, visit the [Argilla
documentation](https://docs.argilla.io/en/latest/).

<!-- For scarf -->
<figure><img alt="ZenML Scarf" referrerpolicy="no-referrer-when-downgrade" src="https://static.scarf.sh/a.png?x-pxid=f0b4f458-0a54-4fcd-aa95-d5ee424815bc" /></figure>

Commit message:

Update old docs with warning message (#3249)

docs/book/component-guide/annotators/argilla.md, after:

---
description: Annotating data using Argilla.
---

{% hint style="warning" %}
This is an older version of the ZenML documentation. To read and view the latest version please [visit this up-to-date URL](https://docs.zenml.io).
{% endhint %}


# Argilla

[Argilla](https://github.com/argilla-io/argilla) is a collaboration tool for AI engineers and domain experts who need to build high-quality datasets for their projects. It enables users to build robust language models through faster data curation using both human and machine feedback, providing support for each step in the MLOps cycle, from data labeling to model monitoring.

![Argilla Annotator](../../.gitbook/assets/argilla_annotator.png)

Argilla distinguishes itself for its focus on specific use cases and
human-in-the-loop approaches. While it does offer programmatic features,
Argilla's core value lies in actively involving human experts in the
tool-building process, setting it apart from other competitors.

### When would you want to use it?

If you need to label textual data as part of your ML workflow, that is the point
at which you could consider adding the Argilla annotator stack component as part
of your ZenML stack.

We currently support the use of annotation at the various stages described in
[the main annotators docs page](annotators.md). The Argilla integration
currently is built to support annotation using a local (Docker-backed) instance
of Argilla as well as a deployed instance of Argilla. There is an easy way to
deploy Argilla as a [Hugging Face
Space](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/spaces-sdks-docker-argilla), for
instance, which is documented in the [Argilla
documentation](https://docs.argilla.io/latest/getting_started/quickstart/).

### How to deploy it?

The Argilla Annotator flavor is provided by the Argilla ZenML integration. You
need to install it to be able to register it as an Annotator and add it to your
stack:

```shell
zenml integration install argilla
```

You can either pass the `api_key` directly into the `zenml annotator register`
command or you can register it as a secret and pass the secret name into the
command. We recommend the latter approach for security reasons. If you want to
take the latter approach, be sure to register a secret for whichever artifact
store you choose, and then you should make sure to pass the name of that secret
into the annotator as the `--authentication_secret`. For example, you'd run:

```shell
zenml secret create argilla_secrets --api_key="<your_argilla_api_key>"
```

(Visit the Argilla documentation and interface to obtain your API key.)

Then register your annotator with ZenML:

```shell
zenml annotator register argilla --flavor argilla --authentication_secret=argilla_secrets --port=6900
```

When using a deployed instance of Argilla, the instance URL must be specified
without any trailing `/` at the end. If you are using a Hugging Face Spaces
instance and its visibility is set to private, you must also set the
`headers` parameter which would include a Hugging Face token. For example:

```shell
zenml annotator register argilla --flavor argilla --authentication_secret=argilla_secrets --instance_url="https://[your-owner-name]-[your_space_name].hf.space" --headers='{"Authorization": "Bearer {[your_hugging_face_token]}"}'
```

Finally, add all these components to a stack and set it as your active stack.
For example:

```shell
zenml stack copy default annotation
# this must be done separately so that the other required stack components are first registered
zenml stack update annotation -an <YOUR_ARGILLA_ANNOTATOR>
zenml stack set annotation
# optionally also
zenml stack describe
```

Now if you run a simple CLI command like `zenml annotator dataset list` this
should work without any errors. You're ready to use your annotator in your ML
workflow!

### How do you use it?

ZenML supports access to your data and annotations via the `zenml annotator ...`
CLI command. We have also implemented an interface to some of the common Argilla
functionality via the ZenML SDK.

You can access information about the datasets you're using with the `zenml
annotator dataset list`. To work on annotation for a particular dataset, you can
run `zenml annotator dataset annotate <dataset_name>`. This will open the Argilla
web interface for you to start annotating the dataset.

#### Argilla Annotator Stack Component

Our Argilla annotator component inherits from the `BaseAnnotator` class. There
are some methods that are core methods that must be defined, like being able to
register or get a dataset. Most annotators handle things like the storage of
state and have their own custom features, so there are quite a few extra methods
specific to Argilla.

The core Argilla functionality that's currently enabled includes a way to
register your datasets, export any annotations for use in separate steps as well
as start the annotator daemon process. (Argilla requires a server to be running
in order to use the web interface, and ZenML handles the connection to this
server using the details you passed in when registering the component.)

#### Argilla Annotator SDK

Visit [the SDK
docs](https://sdkdocs.zenml.io/latest/integration_code_docs/integrations-argilla/)
to learn more about the methods that ZenML exposes for the Argilla annotator. To
access the SDK through Python, you would first get the client object and then
call the methods you need. For example:

```python
from zenml.client import Client

client = Client()
annotator = client.active_stack.annotator

# list dataset names
dataset_names = annotator.get_dataset_names()

# get a specific dataset
dataset = annotator.get_dataset("dataset_name")

# get the annotations for a dataset
annotations = annotator.get_labeled_data(dataset_name="dataset_name")
```

For more detailed information on how to use the Argilla annotator and the
functionality it provides, visit the [Argilla
documentation](https://docs.argilla.io/en/latest/).

<!-- For scarf -->
<figure><img alt="ZenML Scarf" referrerpolicy="no-referrer-when-downgrade" src="https://static.scarf.sh/a.png?x-pxid=f0b4f458-0a54-4fcd-aa95-d5ee424815bc" /></figure>
