docs/book/how-to/configure-python-environments/README.md, before:

---
description: Navigating multiple development environments.
---

# 🐍 Configure python environments

ZenML deployments often involve multiple environments. This guide helps you manage dependencies and configurations across these environments.

Here is a visual overview of the different environments:

<figure><img src="../../.gitbook/assets/SystemArchitecture.png" alt=""><figcaption><p>Left box is the client environment, middle is the zenml server environment, and the right most contains the build environments</p></figcaption></figure>

## Client Environment (or the Runner environment)

The client environment (sometimes known as the runner environment) is where the ZenML pipelines are _compiled_, i.e., where you call the pipeline function (typically in a `run.py` script). There are different types of client environments:

* A local development environment
* A CI runner in production.
* A [ZenML Pro](https://zenml.io/pro) runner.
* A `runner` image orchestrated by the ZenML server to start pipelines.

In all the environments, you should use your preferred package manager (e.g., `pip` or `poetry`) to manage dependencies. Ensure you install the ZenML package and any required [integrations](../../component-guide/README.md).

The client environment typically follows these key steps when starting a pipeline:

1. Compiling an intermediate pipeline representation via the `@pipeline` function.
2. Creating or triggering [pipeline and step build environments](../../component-guide/image-builders/image-builders.md) if running remotely.
3. Triggering a run in the [orchestrator](../../component-guide/orchestrators/orchestrators.md).

Please note that the `@pipeline` function in your code is **only ever called** in this environment. Therefore, any computational logic that is executed in the pipeline function needs to be relevant to this so-called _compile time_, rather than at _execution_ time, which happens later.

## ZenML Server Environment

The ZenML server environment is a FastAPI application managing pipelines and metadata. It includes the ZenML Dashboard and is accessed when you [deploy ZenML](../../getting-started/deploying-zenml/README.md). To manage dependencies, install them during [ZenML deployment](../../getting-started/deploying-zenml/README.md), but only if you have custom integrations, as most are built-in.

See also [here](./configure-the-server-environment.md) for more on [configuring the server environment](./configure-the-server-environment.md).

## Execution Environments

When running locally, there is no real concept of an `execution` environment as the client, server, and execution environment are all the same. However, when running a pipeline remotely, ZenML needs to transfer your code and environment over to the remote [orchestrator](../../component-guide/orchestrators/orchestrators.md). In order to achieve this, ZenML builds Docker images known as `execution environments`.

ZenML handles the Docker image configuration, creation, and pushing, starting with a [base image](https://hub.docker.com/r/zenmldocker/zenml) containing ZenML and Python, then adding pipeline dependencies. To manage the Docker image configuration, follow the steps in the [containerize your pipeline](../../how-to/customize-docker-builds/README.md) guide, including specifying additional pip dependencies, using a custom parent image, and customizing the build process.

The execution environments do not need to be built each time a pipeline is run - you can [reuse builds from previous runs to save time](../../how-to/customize-docker-builds/reuse-docker-builds.md).

## Image Builder Environment

By default, execution environments are created locally in the [client environment](#client-environment-or-the-runner-environment) using the local Docker client. However, this requires Docker installation and permissions. ZenML offers [image builders](../../component-guide/image-builders/image-builders.md), a special [stack component](../../component-guide/README.md), allowing users to build and push Docker images in a different specialized _image builder environment_.

Note that even if you don't configure an image builder in your stack, ZenML still uses the [local image builder](../../component-guide/image-builders/local.md) to retain consistency across all builds. In this case, the image builder environment is the same as the client environment.

<figure><img src="https://static.scarf.sh/a.png?x-pxid=f0b4f458-0a54-4fcd-aa95-d5ee424815bc" alt="ZenML Scarf"><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

Commit message:

Update old docs with warning message (#2835)

docs/book/how-to/configure-python-environments/README.md, after:

---
description: Navigating multiple development environments.
---

{% hint style="warning" %}
This is an older version of the ZenML documentation. To read and view the latest version please [visit this up-to-date URL](https://docs.zenml.io).
{% endhint %}


# 🐍 Configure python environments

ZenML deployments often involve multiple environments. This guide helps you manage dependencies and configurations across these environments.

Here is a visual overview of the different environments:

<figure><img src="../../.gitbook/assets/SystemArchitecture.png" alt=""><figcaption><p>Left box is the client environment, middle is the zenml server environment, and the right most contains the build environments</p></figcaption></figure>

## Client Environment (or the Runner environment)

The client environment (sometimes known as the runner environment) is where the ZenML pipelines are _compiled_, i.e., where you call the pipeline function (typically in a `run.py` script). There are different types of client environments:

* A local development environment
* A CI runner in production.
* A [ZenML Pro](https://zenml.io/pro) runner.
* A `runner` image orchestrated by the ZenML server to start pipelines.

In all the environments, you should use your preferred package manager (e.g., `pip` or `poetry`) to manage dependencies. Ensure you install the ZenML package and any required [integrations](../../component-guide/README.md).

The client environment typically follows these key steps when starting a pipeline:

1. Compiling an intermediate pipeline representation via the `@pipeline` function.
2. Creating or triggering [pipeline and step build environments](../../component-guide/image-builders/image-builders.md) if running remotely.
3. Triggering a run in the [orchestrator](../../component-guide/orchestrators/orchestrators.md).

Please note that the `@pipeline` function in your code is **only ever called** in this environment. Therefore, any computational logic that is executed in the pipeline function needs to be relevant to this so-called _compile time_, rather than at _execution_ time, which happens later.

## ZenML Server Environment

The ZenML server environment is a FastAPI application managing pipelines and metadata. It includes the ZenML Dashboard and is accessed when you [deploy ZenML](../../getting-started/deploying-zenml/README.md). To manage dependencies, install them during [ZenML deployment](../../getting-started/deploying-zenml/README.md), but only if you have custom integrations, as most are built-in.

See also [here](./configure-the-server-environment.md) for more on [configuring the server environment](./configure-the-server-environment.md).

## Execution Environments

When running locally, there is no real concept of an `execution` environment as the client, server, and execution environment are all the same. However, when running a pipeline remotely, ZenML needs to transfer your code and environment over to the remote [orchestrator](../../component-guide/orchestrators/orchestrators.md). In order to achieve this, ZenML builds Docker images known as `execution environments`.

ZenML handles the Docker image configuration, creation, and pushing, starting with a [base image](https://hub.docker.com/r/zenmldocker/zenml) containing ZenML and Python, then adding pipeline dependencies. To manage the Docker image configuration, follow the steps in the [containerize your pipeline](../../how-to/customize-docker-builds/README.md) guide, including specifying additional pip dependencies, using a custom parent image, and customizing the build process.

The execution environments do not need to be built each time a pipeline is run - you can [reuse builds from previous runs to save time](../../how-to/customize-docker-builds/reuse-docker-builds.md).

## Image Builder Environment

By default, execution environments are created locally in the [client environment](#client-environment-or-the-runner-environment) using the local Docker client. However, this requires Docker installation and permissions. ZenML offers [image builders](../../component-guide/image-builders/image-builders.md), a special [stack component](../../component-guide/README.md), allowing users to build and push Docker images in a different specialized _image builder environment_.

Note that even if you don't configure an image builder in your stack, ZenML still uses the [local image builder](../../component-guide/image-builders/local.md) to retain consistency across all builds. In this case, the image builder environment is the same as the client environment.

<figure><img src="https://static.scarf.sh/a.png?x-pxid=f0b4f458-0a54-4fcd-aa95-d5ee424815bc" alt="ZenML Scarf"><figcaption></figcaption></figure>
