docs/book/how-to/visualize-artifacts/types-of-visualizations.md, before:

---
description: Types of visualizations in ZenML.
---

# Types of visualizations

ZenML automatically saves visualizations of many common data types and allows you to view these visualizations in the ZenML dashboard:

![ZenML Artifact Visualizations](../../.gitbook/assets/artifact_visualization_dashboard.png)

Alternatively, any of these visualizations can also be displayed in Jupyter notebooks using the `artifact.visualize()` method:

![output.visualize() Output](../../.gitbook/assets/artifact_visualization_evidently.png)

Some examples of default visualizations are:

- A statistical representation of a [Pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/docs/reference/api/pandas.DataFrame.html) Dataframe represented as a png image.
- Drift detection reports by [Evidently](../../component-guide/data-validators/evidently.md), [Great Expectations](../../component-guide/data-validators/great-expectations.md), and [whylogs](../../component-guide/data-validators/whylogs.md).
- A [Hugging Face](https://zenml.io/integrations/huggingface) datasets viewer embedded as a HTML iframe.

![output.visualize() output for the Hugging Face datasets viewer](../../.gitbook/assets/artifact_visualization_huggingface.gif)

<figure><img src="https://static.scarf.sh/a.png?x-pxid=f0b4f458-0a54-4fcd-aa95-d5ee424815bc" alt="ZenML Scarf"><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

Commit message:

Update old docs with warning message (#2997)

docs/book/how-to/visualize-artifacts/types-of-visualizations.md, after:

---
description: Types of visualizations in ZenML.
---

{% hint style="warning" %}
This is an older version of the ZenML documentation. To read and view the latest version please [visit this up-to-date URL](https://docs.zenml.io).
{% endhint %}


# Types of visualizations

ZenML automatically saves visualizations of many common data types and allows you to view these visualizations in the ZenML dashboard:

![ZenML Artifact Visualizations](../../.gitbook/assets/artifact_visualization_dashboard.png)

Alternatively, any of these visualizations can also be displayed in Jupyter notebooks using the `artifact.visualize()` method:

![output.visualize() Output](../../.gitbook/assets/artifact_visualization_evidently.png)

Some examples of default visualizations are:

- A statistical representation of a [Pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/docs/reference/api/pandas.DataFrame.html) Dataframe represented as a png image.
- Drift detection reports by [Evidently](../../component-guide/data-validators/evidently.md), [Great Expectations](../../component-guide/data-validators/great-expectations.md), and [whylogs](../../component-guide/data-validators/whylogs.md).
- A [Hugging Face](https://zenml.io/integrations/huggingface) datasets viewer embedded as a HTML iframe.

![output.visualize() output for the Hugging Face datasets viewer](../../.gitbook/assets/artifact_visualization_huggingface.gif)

<figure><img src="https://static.scarf.sh/a.png?x-pxid=f0b4f458-0a54-4fcd-aa95-d5ee424815bc" alt="ZenML Scarf"><figcaption></figcaption></figure>
